README.md, before:

# Multi-robot Systems Group UAV system
![logos](.fig/logos.png)

![thumbnail](.fig/drone_collage.jpg)

The [Multi-robot Systems Group](http://mrs.felk.cvut.cz) is a robotics lab at the [Czech Technical University in Prague](https://www.cvut.cz/).
We specialize on multi-rotor helicopters, and for them specifically, we develop this control, estimation, and simulation system.
We think that real-world and replicable experiments should support excellent research and science in robotics.
Thus our platform is built to allow safe real-world experimental validation of approaches in planning, control, estimation, computer vision, tracking, and more.

## Build status

### x86-64/AMD64

|                         | [Stable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-stable)                                                                                                                                                                | [Unstable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-unstable)                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| MRS ROS Packages        | [![stable-mrs-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_amd64.yml)                      | [![unstable-mrs-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_amd64.yml)                      |
| Thirdparty ROS packages | [![stable-thirdparty-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_amd64.yml) | [![unstable-thirdparty-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_amd64.yml) |
| Non-ROS packages        | [![stable-nonbloom-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_amd64.yml)       | [![unstable-nonbloom-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_amd64.yml)       |

### AARCH64/ARM64

|                         | [Stable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-stable)                                                                                                                                                                | [Unstable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-unstable)                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| MRS ROS Packages        | [![stable-mrs-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_arm64.yml)                      | [![unstable-mrs-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_arm64.yml)                      |
| Thirdparty ROS packages | [![stable-thirdparty-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_arm64.yml) | [![unstable-thirdparty-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_arm64.yml) |
| Non-ROS packages        | [![stable-nonbloom-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_arm64.yml)       | [![unstable-nonbloom-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_arm64.yml)       |

## System structure

**TODO** diagram

### Hardware APIs

**TODO**

* PX4 API
* Tello API

### Simulators

**TODO**

* MRS Simulator
* Gazebo Simulator
* Coppelia Simulator

## System properties

The platform is

* built using [Robot Operating System](https://www.ros.org/) Noetic,
* meant to be executed entirely onboard,
* can be deployed on any multi-rotor vehicle, given **TODO** **write about hardware API**
* for both indoor and outdoor,
* supports multi-robot experiments using [Nimbro network](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network) communication.
* provides both: agile flying and robust control.

![](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/raw/gifs/gazebo_circle.gif)

## [Documentation](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/)

The primary source of documentation is here: [https://ctu-mrs.github.io/](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/).
However, the website only scratches the surface of what it should contain (and we know it).
Our system is a research-oriented platform, and it evolves rapidly.
Most of our users are either researchers (who already know the platform) or freshmen students (who might not know ROS at all).
Maintaining up-to-date documentation for such an audience is hard work since we mostly spend our time developing the system while using it for our research.
So instead, we aim at educating our students to look around the packages (each contains its own README), explore the launch files, and be able to read the code, which we strive to keep readable.

[![](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/raw/diagram/mrs_uav_system_diagram.jpg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/raw/diagram/mrs_uav_system_diagram.pdf)

The system follows a description presented in the article [doi.org/10.1007/s10846-021-01383-5](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10846-021-01383-5), [pdf](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s10846-021-01383-5.pdf):
```
Baca, T., Petrlik, M., Vrba, M., Spurny, V., Penicka, R., Hert, D., and Saska, M.,
"The MRS UAV System: Pushing the Frontiers of Reproducible Research, Real-world Deployment, and
Education with Autonomous Unmanned Aerial Vehicles", J Intell Robot Syst 102, 26 (2021).
```

## Unmanned Aerial Vehicles

The MRS UAV system is currently pre-configured for the following UAV platforms, operated by the MRS.
The platforms are ordered by the size/payload capacity.

| Model        | Simulation                    | Real UAV                      |
|--------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| DJI f330     | ![](.fig/f330_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/f330_real.jpg)       |
| DJI f450     | ![](.fig/f450_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/f450_real.jpg)       |
| Holybro x500 | ![](.fig/x500_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/x500_real.jpg)       |
| DJI f550     | ![](.fig/f550_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/f550_real.jpg)       |
| Tarot t650   | ![](.fig/t650_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/t650_real.jpg)       |
| NAKI II      | ![](.fig/naki_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/naki_real.jpg)       |

## Related packages

The following packages are not necessarily part of our automated installation.
Therefore, you might need to clone them by yourself and place them in your ROS workspace.
Some of those are forks of third-party repositories.

| Package                                                                              | Description                                                                                   | 20.04                                                                                                                                                                |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [MRS Gazebo Extra Resources](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_gazebo_extras_resources) | *MRS System*-depended optional plugins and resources                                          | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_gazebo_extras_resources/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_gazebo_extras_resources/actions) |
| [Example ROS packages](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/example_ros_packages)              | MRS ROS examples                                                                              | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/example_ros_packages/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/example_ros_packages/actions)               |
| [Nimbro network](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network)                          | ROS communication layer for multiple independent machines                                     | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network/actions)                           |
| [MRS optic flow](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_optic_flow)                          | GPU-accelerated optic flow alorithm for UAV odometry                                          | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_optic_flow/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_optic_flow/actions)                           |
| [Hector SLAM](https://github.com/tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg/hector_slam)                   | 2D Laser-based LIDAR SLAM, [how to](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/software/hector_slam.html) |                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [Hector SLAM](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/hector_slam) - MRS fork                     | + Nodeleted, [how to](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/software/hector_slam.html)               | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/hector_slam/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/hector_slam/actions)                                 |
| [MRS Serial](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_serial)                                  | serial line interface to ROS, communicates using the BACA protocol                            | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_serial/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_serial/actions)                                   |
| [UVDAR](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar)                                            | mutual localization of UAVs using Ultra-Violet LED blinkers                                   | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_core/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_core/actions)                                   |
| [UVDAR gazebo plugin](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_gazebo_plugin)                | Gazebo plugin for UVDAR                                                                       | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_gazebo_plugin/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_gazebo_plugin/actions)                 |
| [trajectory loader](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/trajectory_loader)                    | Loading UAV trajectories from CSV files                                                       | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/trajectory_loader/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/trajectory_loader/actions)                     |
| [Bluefox2](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/bluefox2)                                      | MV Bluefox2 driver, MRS fork                                                                  | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/bluefox2/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/bluefox2/actions)                                       |
| [Object detection](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/object_detect)                         | Object detection by color segmentation                                                        | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/object_detect/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/object_detect/actions)                             |
| [MRS utils](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_utils)                                    | Development utils                                                                             | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_utils/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_utils/actions)                                     |
| [OctomapTools](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/octomap_tools)                             | Octomap visualization and manipulation                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Backwards Compatibility and updates

We do not guarantee backward compatibility at any time.
The platform is evolving according to the needs of the MRS group.
Updates can be made that are not going to be compatible with users' local configs, simulation worlds, tmux sessions, etc.
However, when we change something that requires user action to maintain compatibility, we will create an issue in this repository labeled **users-read-me**.
Subscribe to this repository updates and issues by clicking the **Watch** button in the top-right corner of this page.
Recent changes requiring user action:

* August, 2023: **TODO** **Rehaul of the entire MRS UAV System**
* January 17, 2023: [Updates for px4 firmware v1.13.2](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/150)
* March 8, 2022: [mrs_lib::Transformer interface updated](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/136)
* December 09, 2021: [not building with --march=native anymore](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/126)
* December 25, 2020: [Updated controller interface, updated thrust curve parametrization](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/33)
* December 15, 2020: [Rework of simulation UAV spawning mechanism, Noetic update](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/32)
* November 12, 2020: [GPS coordinates within Gazebo world need changing](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/22)
* November 12, 2020: [Rangefinder fusion needs enabling in simulation sessions](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/21)

## Installation

### Native installation

1. Install the Robot Operating System (Noetic):
```bash
curl https://ctu-mrs.github.io/ppa-unstable/add_ros_ppa.sh | bash
sudo apt install ros-noetic-desktop-full
```

2. Select which version of the MRS UAV System you want to install.

For **[stable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-stable)** version, add the following PPA:
```bash
curl https://ctu-mrs.github.io/ppa-stable/add_ppa.sh | bash
```
For   **[unstable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-unstable)** (nightly-build) of the system, add the following PPA:
```bash
curl https://ctu-mrs.github.io/ppa-unstable/add_ppa.sh | bash
```

Then, install the MRS UAV System:
```bash
sudo apt install ros-noetic-mrs-uav-system-full
```

3. Follow these instructions ([starting the simulation](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/simulation/howto.html), **TODO update**) for starting the example simulation sessions.

4. Follow these instructions (**TOOD**) for creating your own catkin workspace and building your packages with the MRS UAV system.

### Singularity and Docker

Please, follow this link to learn how to run our system using Singularity.

* [MRS Singularity](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_singularity/tree/1.5)

Our Singularity images are built almost completely from Docker images.
The following link points to our Docker HUB repository.

* [Docker Images](https://hub.docker.com/u/ctumrs)

#### "I want the Linux environment people from MRS work with"

Great! In that case, you want to install Tomas's Linux-setup.
**Beware!** This might alter your existing configuration of some Linux tools (Vim, Tmux, i3wm, ranger, ...).
Refer to its [README](https://github.com/klaxalk/linux-setup), for more information.
Installation is *not* obligatory and the MRS UAV system will work without it.

Paste the following code into your terminal and press **enter**
```bash
cd /tmp
echo "mkdir -p ~/git
cd ~/git
sudo apt-get -y install git
git clone https://github.com/klaxalk/linux-setup
cd linux-setup
./install.sh" > run.sh && source run.sh
```

For help with using the system, you can also refer to the [MRS Cheatsheet](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/introduction/cheatsheet.html).

Commit message:

added a link to the Google Doc WIP documentation

README.md, after:

# Multi-robot Systems Group UAV system
![logos](.fig/logos.png)

![thumbnail](.fig/drone_collage.jpg)

The [Multi-robot Systems Group](http://mrs.felk.cvut.cz) is a robotics lab at the [Czech Technical University in Prague](https://www.cvut.cz/).
We specialize on multi-rotor helicopters, and for them specifically, we develop this control, estimation, and simulation system.
We think that real-world and replicable experiments should support excellent research and science in robotics.
Thus our platform is built to allow safe real-world experimental validation of approaches in planning, control, estimation, computer vision, tracking, and more.

## Build status

### x86-64/AMD64

|                         | [Stable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-stable)                                                                                                                                                                | [Unstable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-unstable)                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| MRS ROS Packages        | [![stable-mrs-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_amd64.yml)                      | [![unstable-mrs-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_amd64.yml)                      |
| Thirdparty ROS packages | [![stable-thirdparty-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_amd64.yml) | [![unstable-thirdparty-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_amd64.yml) |
| Non-ROS packages        | [![stable-nonbloom-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_amd64.yml)       | [![unstable-nonbloom-amd64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_amd64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_amd64.yml)       |

### AARCH64/ARM64

|                         | [Stable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-stable)                                                                                                                                                                | [Unstable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-unstable)                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| MRS ROS Packages        | [![stable-mrs-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_mrs_arm64.yml)                      | [![unstable-mrs-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_mrs_arm64.yml)                      |
| Thirdparty ROS packages | [![stable-thirdparty-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_thirdparty_arm64.yml) | [![unstable-thirdparty-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_thirdparty_arm64.yml) |
| Non-ROS packages        | [![stable-nonbloom-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/stable_nonbloom_arm64.yml)       | [![unstable-nonbloom-arm64](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_arm64.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/rosdistro/actions/workflows/unstable_nonbloom_arm64.yml)       |

## System structure

**TODO** diagram

### Hardware APIs

**TODO**

* PX4 API
* Tello API

### Simulators

**TODO**

* MRS Simulator
* Gazebo Simulator
* Coppelia Simulator

## System properties

The platform is

* built using [Robot Operating System](https://www.ros.org/) Noetic,
* meant to be executed entirely onboard,
* can be deployed on any multi-rotor vehicle, given **TODO** **write about hardware API**
* for both indoor and outdoor,
* supports multi-robot experiments using [Nimbro network](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network) communication.
* provides both: agile flying and robust control.

![](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/raw/gifs/gazebo_circle.gif)

## [Documentation](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/)

*Note:* The MRS UAV system v1.5 is still a WIP and the system as well as the documentation is in the process of being polished.
You can find the most complete, although still rough documentation [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NibHqNdyzzAYE7DNIMMq1HmzyFrBnISbzV17dP-waYw/edit?usp=sharing).
Any feedback is welcome (you can use the issues in this repo or comment on the Google Doc)! or comment on the Google Doc)!

The primary source of documentation is here: [https://ctu-mrs.github.io/](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/).
However, the website only scratches the surface of what it should contain (and we know it).
Our system is a research-oriented platform, and it evolves rapidly.
Most of our users are either researchers (who already know the platform) or freshmen students (who might not know ROS at all).
Maintaining up-to-date documentation for such an audience is hard work since we mostly spend our time developing the system while using it for our research.
So instead, we aim at educating our students to look around the packages (each contains its own README), explore the launch files, and be able to read the code, which we strive to keep readable.

[![](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/raw/diagram/mrs_uav_system_diagram.jpg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/raw/diagram/mrs_uav_system_diagram.pdf)

The system follows a description presented in the article [doi.org/10.1007/s10846-021-01383-5](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10846-021-01383-5), [pdf](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s10846-021-01383-5.pdf):
```
Baca, T., Petrlik, M., Vrba, M., Spurny, V., Penicka, R., Hert, D., and Saska, M.,
"The MRS UAV System: Pushing the Frontiers of Reproducible Research, Real-world Deployment, and
Education with Autonomous Unmanned Aerial Vehicles", J Intell Robot Syst 102, 26 (2021).
```

## Unmanned Aerial Vehicles

The MRS UAV system is currently pre-configured for the following UAV platforms, operated by the MRS.
The platforms are ordered by the size/payload capacity.

| Model        | Simulation                    | Real UAV                      |
|--------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| DJI f330     | ![](.fig/f330_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/f330_real.jpg)       |
| DJI f450     | ![](.fig/f450_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/f450_real.jpg)       |
| Holybro x500 | ![](.fig/x500_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/x500_real.jpg)       |
| DJI f550     | ![](.fig/f550_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/f550_real.jpg)       |
| Tarot t650   | ![](.fig/t650_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/t650_real.jpg)       |
| NAKI II      | ![](.fig/naki_simulation.jpg) | ![](.fig/naki_real.jpg)       |

## Related packages

The following packages are not necessarily part of our automated installation.
Therefore, you might need to clone them by yourself and place them in your ROS workspace.
Some of those are forks of third-party repositories.

| Package                                                                              | Description                                                                                   | 20.04                                                                                                                                                                |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [MRS Gazebo Extra Resources](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_gazebo_extras_resources) | *MRS System*-depended optional plugins and resources                                          | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_gazebo_extras_resources/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_gazebo_extras_resources/actions) |
| [Example ROS packages](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/example_ros_packages)              | MRS ROS examples                                                                              | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/example_ros_packages/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/example_ros_packages/actions)               |
| [Nimbro network](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network)                          | ROS communication layer for multiple independent machines                                     | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/nimbro_network/actions)                           |
| [MRS optic flow](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_optic_flow)                          | GPU-accelerated optic flow alorithm for UAV odometry                                          | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_optic_flow/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_optic_flow/actions)                           |
| [Hector SLAM](https://github.com/tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg/hector_slam)                   | 2D Laser-based LIDAR SLAM, [how to](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/software/hector_slam.html) |                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [Hector SLAM](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/hector_slam) - MRS fork                     | + Nodeleted, [how to](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/software/hector_slam.html)               | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/hector_slam/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/hector_slam/actions)                                 |
| [MRS Serial](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_serial)                                  | serial line interface to ROS, communicates using the BACA protocol                            | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_serial/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_serial/actions)                                   |
| [UVDAR](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar)                                            | mutual localization of UAVs using Ultra-Violet LED blinkers                                   | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_core/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_core/actions)                                   |
| [UVDAR gazebo plugin](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_gazebo_plugin)                | Gazebo plugin for UVDAR                                                                       | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_gazebo_plugin/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/uvdar_gazebo_plugin/actions)                 |
| [trajectory loader](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/trajectory_loader)                    | Loading UAV trajectories from CSV files                                                       | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/trajectory_loader/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/trajectory_loader/actions)                     |
| [Bluefox2](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/bluefox2)                                      | MV Bluefox2 driver, MRS fork                                                                  | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/bluefox2/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/bluefox2/actions)                                       |
| [Object detection](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/object_detect)                         | Object detection by color segmentation                                                        | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/object_detect/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/object_detect/actions)                             |
| [MRS utils](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_utils)                                    | Development utils                                                                             | [![Build Status](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_utils/workflows/Noetic/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_utils/actions)                                     |
| [OctomapTools](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/octomap_tools)                             | Octomap visualization and manipulation                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Backwards Compatibility and updates

We do not guarantee backward compatibility at any time.
The platform is evolving according to the needs of the MRS group.
Updates can be made that are not going to be compatible with users' local configs, simulation worlds, tmux sessions, etc.
However, when we change something that requires user action to maintain compatibility, we will create an issue in this repository labeled **users-read-me**.
Subscribe to this repository updates and issues by clicking the **Watch** button in the top-right corner of this page.
Recent changes requiring user action:

* August, 2023: **TODO** **Rehaul of the entire MRS UAV System**
* January 17, 2023: [Updates for px4 firmware v1.13.2](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/150)
* March 8, 2022: [mrs_lib::Transformer interface updated](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/136)
* December 09, 2021: [not building with --march=native anymore](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/126)
* December 25, 2020: [Updated controller interface, updated thrust curve parametrization](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/33)
* December 15, 2020: [Rework of simulation UAV spawning mechanism, Noetic update](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/32)
* November 12, 2020: [GPS coordinates within Gazebo world need changing](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/22)
* November 12, 2020: [Rangefinder fusion needs enabling in simulation sessions](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_system/issues/21)

## Installation

### Native installation

1. Install the Robot Operating System (Noetic):
```bash
curl https://ctu-mrs.github.io/ppa-unstable/add_ros_ppa.sh | bash
sudo apt install ros-noetic-desktop-full
```

2. Select which version of the MRS UAV System you want to install.

For **[stable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-stable)** version, add the following PPA:
```bash
curl https://ctu-mrs.github.io/ppa-stable/add_ppa.sh | bash
```
For   **[unstable](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/ppa-unstable)** (nightly-build) of the system, add the following PPA:
```bash
curl https://ctu-mrs.github.io/ppa-unstable/add_ppa.sh | bash
```

Then, install the MRS UAV System:
```bash
sudo apt install ros-noetic-mrs-uav-system-full
```

3. Follow these instructions ([starting the simulation](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/simulation/howto.html), **TODO update**) for starting the example simulation sessions.

4. Follow these instructions (**TOOD**) for creating your own catkin workspace and building your packages with the MRS UAV system.

### Singularity and Docker

Please, follow this link to learn how to run our system using Singularity.

* [MRS Singularity](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_singularity/tree/1.5)

Our Singularity images are built almost completely from Docker images.
The following link points to our Docker HUB repository.

* [Docker Images](https://hub.docker.com/u/ctumrs)

#### "I want the Linux environment people from MRS work with"

Great! In that case, you want to install Tomas's Linux-setup.
**Beware!** This might alter your existing configuration of some Linux tools (Vim, Tmux, i3wm, ranger, ...).
Refer to its [README](https://github.com/klaxalk/linux-setup), for more information.
Installation is *not* obligatory and the MRS UAV system will work without it.

Paste the following code into your terminal and press **enter**
```bash
cd /tmp
echo "mkdir -p ~/git
cd ~/git
sudo apt-get -y install git
git clone https://github.com/klaxalk/linux-setup
cd linux-setup
./install.sh" > run.sh && source run.sh
```

For help with using the system, you can also refer to the [MRS Cheatsheet](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/introduction/cheatsheet.html).
